# UQ Presentation

An R package for creating UQ-branded slideshow presentations, written in R Markdown, powered by [Xaringan](https://github.com/yihui/xaringan).

### About

In 2018, The University of Queensland released the [UQ Brand](https://omc.uq.edu.au/uq-brand), a consistent suite of design guidelines and materials for university marketing and communications. Among these materials is a Powerpoint (.pptx) template for slideshows. This R Package has been written to provide an approximation of that template in R, for those who prefer authoring slideshows in R Markdown.

### Installation

Install the UQ Presentation template via the R console using devtools

```
# Uncomment below if devtools is not already installed:
# install.packages("devtools")

devtools::install_github("JaydenM-C/UQpresentation")
```

After the package has finished installing, a "UQ Presentation" template should be available in RStudio via `File > New file > R Markdown...`. In the dialogue box, select `From template` to see a list of available templates (try restarting RStudio if UQ Presentation doesn't appear in the list straight away).

You probably also need to install Xaringan `devtools::install_github("yihui/xaringan")`, I don't remember for sure 🙃

### Usage

To start a new document, go to `File > New file > R Markdown... > From template` and select `UQ Template` from the list.

**Document structure:**

In the root directory, you have an R Markdown document where you write your presentation. When you click `knit`, it will generate a corresponding HTML file. The template will also create three folders. `libs` contains default CSS for Remark.js. `custom-css`, as the name suggests, contains CSS associated with the UQ style. `imgs` contains image files for slide backgrounds. If you're confident with CSS, you can jump into these folders and change the slideshow template to suit your needs. Otherwise, just stick to writing slideshow content in the R Markdown file.

**R Markdown file structure:**

The YAML header at the beginning of the file contains a few customisable options, such as slide ratio and code highlighting style. Note that currently the title, subtitle, author and date fields don't actually have any output in the UQ Presentation template (they work with Xaringan title slides but not UQ title slides currently) so entering information in these fields will have no effect on the slideshow. Currently, you'll just have to enter these kinds of details on the title slide directly. Sorry about that.

**Slide structure:**

Slides are separated in the markdown file by three dashes `---`.

Each slide starts with a line describing the slide class and layout. The UQ Presentation template defines three slide classes: `UQ-title`, `UQ-title-inverse` and `UQ-basic`. Check out the [Xaringan guide](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/xaringan.html), particularly [section 7.3](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/xaringan-format.html) for more formatting options.

Slide content comes below this line, which you write using standard R Markdown. By the way, mini-transitions are defined using two dashes. So, for example, this bullet list will appear all at once:

```
- Item 1
- Item 2
- Item 3
```

But this list will appear one bullet point at a time:

```
- Item 1

--

- Item 2

--

- Item 3
```

(Unfortunately, I think you have to have the empty lines in between).

If you want to have presenter comments, these can be written underneath slide content, separated by `???`.

An example slide:

```
---
class: uq-basic

# Slide content

- Key point number 1
- Key point number 2
- Key point number 3

???

Some presenter notes go here.

---
```

Some slide examples are included in the markdown file generated by the UQ presentation template.

**Slightly more advanced slide structure:**

A couple more slide styling tips:

You can split slide text into two columns using `.pull-left[]` and `.pull-right[]`. e.g.:

```
---
class: uq-basic

.pull-left[
  some important point here
]
.pull-right[
  - reason 1
  - reason 2
  - reason 3
]

---
```

The package also defines a self-explanatory `.small-text[]` option (useful for references!) and an `.emph-text[]` option which turns words from regular black text to a UQ-brand-approved shade of purple. This can be handy for making key terms pop in a way that's aesthetically consistent with the theme. (Incidentally, the UQ Brand guidelines contain a list of secondary colours which could be useful if looking for other colour choices which match nicely with the main theme). There are also a `.quote-text[]` (UQ-approved [Merriweather font](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Merriweather)) and `.single-spaced-text[]` options.

You can define your own text styles (or change existing ones)by digging into the custom CSS file supplied by the template.

**Position of speaker notes with mini-transitions:**

If using presenter notes and mini-transitions, note that the presenter notes become visible with the mini-transition, not full slide transition, that they belong to. They then remain visible for the rest of the slide. So for example, given the following list:

```
- Item 1

???

Speaker notes about item 1.

--

- Item 2

???

Speaker notes about item 2.
```

When the slide appears, the first dot point will appear on the slide and the presenter notes will read:

"Speaker notes about item 1."

Then, click forward one slide and the second dot point will appear, while the presenter notes will read:

"Speaker notes about item 1.

Speaker notes about item 2."

If you were to dump presenter notes relating to all bullet points at the bottom of the slide, then they'll only appear after the last mini-transition (e.g. when you click through to the final bullet point of an incrementally-appearing list). You might be confused when you reach the start of the slide and no speaker notes are visible!

**Presenting:**

When you've finished writing the slideshow, you can generate an HTML file by clicking `knit` in RStudio. This generates an HTML file that can be opened in a web browser. A snazzy thing to do would be to host this HTML file on your personal website and use this to open the presentation on the lecture theatre's computer—no more fiddling around with USB sticks.

You move forward and backward between slides using the arrow keys (right or down to move forwards, left or up to move backwards). You can switch to presenter mode by hitting 'p' and you can 'clone' the slideshow by hitting 'c'. To present with notes, you'll want to open the slideshow then press 'c' (this opens the presentation in a second window which stays in sync with the first). Arrange the two screens so the audience can see one and you can see the other. Then, on the screen facing you, hit 'p' to open presenter mode. You've now got presenter mode open in the window in front of you and your fullscreen slides in the other window facing the audience. Other keyboard shortcuts are described [here](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/xaringan-key.html).

**For more information and help:**

This really only scratches the surface of how to author publications in R Markdown using Xaringan and the UQ Template. I'd strongly encourage anyone wishing to use the UQ template to familiarise themselves with Yihui Xie's Xaringan package on which this template is based. There's a [quickfire guide](https://slides.yihui.name/xaringan/) authored in Xaringan itself, a [more thorough guide](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/xaringan.html) and the [Xaringan Github repo](https://github.com/yihui/xaringan).

It should be noted that the UQ Presentation template lacks most of the functionality of the original Powerpoint template and the three slide classes are only a small fraction of the different slide templates available in UQ's pptx file. One of the good things about Remark.js (on which Xaringan and, in turn, this package are built) is the relative ease with which you can add background images to slides. This makes it not super hard to get into the guts of the template and add additional slide classes if you wish. If presenting at an academic conference, for example, you may wish to take some branded elements of the UQ template and add your own slide backgrounds as well to make it less in-your-face UQey.

### Disclaimer

I designed this package for personal use. I wanted to take advantage of R Markdown while authoring presentations and needed a simple, smart-looking template with which to do so. I've made the package public just in case anyone else finds it useful, but I haven't really designed it with other people in mind. While I welcome people getting in touch/logging an issue if they feel so inclined, I promise absolutely nothing in terms of future maintenance and/or user support.

IMPORTANT: All the colours and graphics associated with the UQ Brand belong to The University of Queensland and do not belong to me. Their usage is goverened by The University of Queensland. Please do not use this package unless you have access to the powerpoint template [here](https://omc.uq.edu.au/uq-brand). Further, use of this package does not guarantee that the resulting output will conform precisely with UQ Brand guidelines. Questions concerning usage of the UQ Brand should be directed to the [UQ Office of Marketing and Communications](https://omc.uq.edu.au). If you are a UQ official and you feel this package should not be here, please get in touch with me (j.macklincordes at your standard uq.edu.au email address).

